So Robert had returned from his hunt It was long past time I shall need a few moments to dress Ned left the man waiting without Cayn helped him with his clothes white linen tunic and grey cloak trousers cut open down his plaster-sheathed leg his badge of office and last of all a belt of heavy silver links He sheathed the Valyrian dagger at his waist

The Red Keep was dark and still as Cayn and Tomard escorted him across the inner bailey The moon hung low over the walls ripening toward full On the ramparts a guardsman in a gold cloak walked his rounds

The royal apartments were in Maegor’s Holdfast a massive square fortress that nestled in the heart of the Red Keep behind walls twelve feet thick and a dry moat lined with iron spikes a castle-within-a-castle Ser Boros Blount guarded the far end of the bridge white steel armor ghostly in the moonlight Within Ned passed two other knights of the Kingsguard Ser Preston Greenfield stood at the bottom of the steps and Ser Barristan Selmy waited at the door of the king’s bedchamber Three men in white cloaks he thought remembering and a strange chill went through him Ser Barristan’s face was as pale as his armor Ned had only to look at him to know that something was dreadfully wrong The royal steward opened the door Lord Eddard Stark the Hand of the King he announced

Bring him here Robert’s voice called strangely thick

Fires blazed in the twin hearths at either end of the bedchamber filling the room with a sullen red glare The heat within was suffocating Robert lay across the canopied bed At the bedside hovered Grand Maester Pycelle while Lord Renly paced restlessly before the shuttered windows Servants moved back and forth feeding logs to the fire and boiling wine Cersei Lannister sat on the edge of the bed beside her husband Her hair was tousled as if from sleep but there was nothing sleepy in her eyes They followed Ned as Tomard and Cayn helped him cross the room He seemed to move very slowly as if he were still dreaming

The king still wore his boots Ned could see dried mud and blades of grass clinging to the leather where Robert’s feet stuck out beneath the blanket that covered him A green doublet lay on the floor slashed open and discarded the cloth crusted with red-brown stains The room smelled of smoke and blood and death

Ned the king whispered when he saw him His face was pale as milk Come… closer

His men brought him close Ned steadied himself with a hand on the bedpost He had only to look down at Robert to know how bad it was What… he began his throat clenched

A boar Lord Renly was still in his hunting greens his cloak spattered with blood

A devil the king husked My own fault Too much wine damn me to hell Missed my thrust

And where were the rest of you Ned demanded of Lord Renly Where was Ser Barristan and the Kingsguard

Renly’s mouth twitched My brother commanded us to stand aside and let him take the boar alone

Eddard Stark lifted the blanket

They had done what they could to close him up but it was nowhere near enough The boar must have been a fearsome thing It had ripped the king from groin to nipple with its tusks The wine-soaked bandages that Grand Maester Pycelle had applied were already black with blood and the smell off the wound was hideous Ned’s stomach turned He let the blanket fall

Stinks Robert said The stink of death don’t think I can’t smell it Bastard did me good eh But I… I paid him back in kind Ned The king’s smile was as terrible as his wound his teeth red Drove a knife right through his eye Ask them if I didn’t Ask them

Truly Lord Renly murmured We brought the carcass back with us at my brother’s command

For the feast Robert whispered Now leave us The lot of you I need to speak with Ned

Robert my sweet lord… Cersei began

I said leave Robert insisted with a hint of his old fierceness What part of that don’t you understand woman

Cersei gathered up her skirts and her dignity and led the way to the door Lord Renly and the others followed Grand Maester Pycelle lingered his hands shaking as he offered the king a cup of thick white liquid The milk of the poppy Your Grace he said Drink For your pain

Robert knocked the cup away with the back of his hand Away with you I’ll sleep soon enough old fool Get out

Grand Maester Pycelle gave Ned a stricken look as he shuffled from the room

Damn you Robert Ned said when they were alone His leg was throbbing so badly he was almost blind with pain Or perhaps it was grief that fogged his eyes He lowered himself to the bed beside his friend Why do you always have to be so headstrong

Ah fuck you Ned the king said hoarsely I killed the bastard didn’t I A lock of matted black hair fell across his eyes as he glared up at Ned Ought to do the same for you Can’t leave a man to hunt in peace Ser Robar found me Gregor’s head Ugly thought Never told the Hound Let Cersei surprise him His laugh turned into a grunt as a spasm of pain hit him Gods have mercy he muttered swallowing his agony The girl Daenerys Only a child you were right… that’s why the girl… the gods sent the boar… sent to punish me… The king coughed bringing up blood Wrong it was wrong I… only a girl… Varys Littlefinger even my brother… worthless… no one to tell me no but you Ned… only you… He lifted his hand the gesture pained and feeble Paper and ink There on the table Write what I tell you

Ned smoothed the paper out across his knee and took up the quill At your command Your Grace

This is the will and word of Robert of House Baratheon the First of his Name King of the Andals and all the rest—put in the damn titles you know how it goes I do hereby command Eddard of House Stark Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the King to serve as Lord Regent and Protector of the Realm upon my… upon my death… to rule in my… in my stead until my son Joffrey does come of age…

Robert… Joffrey is not your son he wanted to say but the words would not come The agony was written too plainly across Robert’s face he could not hurt him more So Ned bent his head and wrote but where the king had said my son Joffrey he scrawled my heir instead The deceit made him feel soiled The lies we tell for love he thought May the gods forgive me What else would you have me say

Say… whatever you need to Protect and defend gods old and new you have the words Write I’ll sign it You give it to the council when I’m dead

Robert Ned said in a voice thick with grief you must not do this Don’t die on me The realm needs you

Robert took his hand fingers squeezing hard You are… such a bad liar Ned Stark he said through his pain The realm… the realm knows… what a wretched king I’ve been Bad as Aerys the gods spare me

No Ned told his dying friend not so bad as Aerys Your Grace Not near so bad as Aerys

Robert managed a weak red smile At the least they will say… this last thing… this I did right You won’t fail me You’ll rule now You’ll hate it worse than I did… but you’ll do well Are you done with the scribbling

Yes Your Grace Ned offered Robert the paper The king scrawled his signature blindly leaving a smear of blood across the letter The seal should be witnessed

Serve the boar at my funeral feast Robert rasped Apple in its mouth skin seared crisp Eat the bastard Don’t care if you choke on him Promise me Ned

I promise Promise me Ned Lyanna’s voice echoed

The girl the king said Daenerys Let her live If you can if it… not too late… talk to them… Varys Littlefinger… don’t let them kill her And help my son Ned Make him be… better than me He winced Gods have mercy

They will my friend Ned said They will

The king closed his eyes and seemed to relax Killed by a pig he muttered Ought to laugh but it hurts too much

Ned was not laughing Shall I call them back

Robert gave a weak nod As you will Gods why is it so cold in here

The servants rushed back in and hurried to feed the fires The queen had gone that was some small relief at least If she had any sense Cersei would take her children and fly before the break of day Ned thought She had lingered too long already

King Robert did not seem to miss her He bid his brother Renly and Grand Maester Pycelle to stand in witness as he pressed his seal into the hot yellow wax that Ned had dripped upon his letter Now give me something for the pain and let me die

Hurriedly Grand Maester Pycelle mixed him another draught of the milk of the poppy This time the king drank deeply His black beard was beaded with thick white droplets when he threw the empty cup aside Will I dream

Ned gave him his answer You will my lord

Good he said smiling I will give Lyanna your love Ned Take care of my children for me

The words twisted in Ned’s belly like a knife For a moment he was at a loss He could not bring himself to lie Then he remembered the bastards little Barra at her mother’s breast Mya in the Vale Gendry at his forge and all the others I shall… guard your children as if they were my own he said slowly

Robert nodded and closed his eyes Ned watched his old friend sag softly into the pillows as the milk of the poppy washed the pain from his face Sleep took him

Heavy chains jangled softly as Grand Maester Pycelle came up to Ned I will do all in my power my lord but the wound has mortified It took them two days to get him back By the time I saw him it was too late I can lessen His Grace’s suffering but only the gods can heal him now

How long Ned asked

By rights he should be dead already I have never seen a man cling to life so fiercely

