I did not ask for your views boy Rykker said coldly

Let him speak ser Jon blurted

Mormont’s eyes flicked from Sam to Jon and back again If the lad has something to say I’ll hear him out Come closer boy We can’t see you behind those horses

Sam edged past Jon and the garrons sweating profusely My lord it… it can’t be a day or… look… the blood…

Yes Mormont growled impatiently Blood what of it

He soils his smallclothes at the sight of it Chett shouted out and the rangers laughed

Sam mopped at the sweat on his brow You… you can see where Ghost… Jon’s direwolf… you can see where he tore off that man’s hand and yet… the stump hasn’t bled look… He waved a hand My father… L-lord Randyll he he made me watch him dress animals sometimes when… after… Sam shook his head from side to side his chins quivering Now that he had looked at the bodies he could not seem to look away A fresh kill… the blood would still flow my lords Later… later it would be clotted like a… a jelly thick and… and… He looked as though he was going to be sick This man… look at the wrist it’s all… crusty… dry… like…

Jon saw at once what Sam meant He could see the torn veins in the dead man’s wrist iron worms in the pale flesh His blood was a black dust Yet Jaremy Rykker was unconvinced If they’d been dead much longer than a day they’d be ripe by now boy They don’t even smell

Dywen the gnarled old forester who liked to boast that he could smell snow coming on sidled closer to the corpses and took a whiff Well they’re no pansy flowers but… m’lord has the truth of it There’s no corpse stink

They… they aren’t rotting Sam pointed his fat finger shaking only a little Look there’s… there’s no maggots or… or… worms or anything… they’ve been lying here in the woods but they… they haven’t been chewed or eaten by animals… only Ghost… otherwise they’re… they’re…

Untouched Jon said softly And Ghost is different The dogs and the horses won’t go near them

The rangers exchanged glances they could see it was true every man of them Mormont frowned glancing from the corpses to the dogs Chett bring the hounds closer

Chett tried cursing yanking on the leashes giving one animal a lick of his boot Most of the dogs just whimpered and planted their feet He tried dragging one The bitch resisted growling and squirming as if to escape her collar Finally she lunged at him Chett dropped the leash and stumbled backward The dog leapt over him and bounded off into the trees

This… this is all wrong Sam Tarly said earnestly The blood… there’s bloodstains on their clothes and… and their flesh dry and hard but… there’s none on the ground or… anywhere With those… those… those… Sam made himself swallow took a deep breath With those wounds… terrible wounds… there should be blood all over Shouldn’t there

Dywen sucked at his wooden teeth Might be they didn’t die here Might be someone brought ’em and left ’em for us A warning as like The old forester peered down suspiciously And might be I’m a fool but I don’t know that Othor never had no blue eyes afore

Ser Jaremy looked startled Neither did Flowers he blurted turning to stare at the dead man

A silence fell over the wood For a moment all they heard was Sam’s heavy breathing and the wet sound of Dywen sucking on his teeth Jon squatted beside Ghost

Burn them someone whispered One of the rangers Jon could not have said who Yes burn them a second voice urged

The Old Bear gave a stubborn shake of his head Not yet I want Maester Aemon to have a look at them We’ll bring them back to the Wall

Some commands are more easily given than obeyed They wrapped the dead men in cloaks but when Hake and Dywen tried to tie one onto a horse the animal went mad screaming and rearing lashing out with its hooves even biting at Ketter when he ran to help The rangers had no better luck with the other garrons not even the most placid wanted any part of these burdens In the end they were forced to hack off branches and fashion crude slings to carry the corpses back on foot It was well past midday by the time they started back

I will have these woods searched Mormont commanded Ser Jaremy as they set out Every tree every rock every bush and every foot of muddy ground within ten leagues of here Use all the men you have and if you do not have enough borrow hunters and foresters from the stewards If Ben and the others are out here dead or alive I will have them found And if there is anyone else in these woods I will know of it You are to track them and take them alive if possible Is that understood

It is my lord Ser Jaremy said It will be done

After that Mormont rode in silence brooding Jon followed close behind him as the Lord Commander’s steward that was his place The day was grey damp overcast the sort of day that made you wish for rain No wind stirred the wood the air hung humid and heavy and Jon’s clothes clung to his skin It was warm Too warm The Wall was weeping copiously had been weeping for days and sometimes Jon even imagined it was shrinking

The old men called this weather spirit summer and said it meant the season was giving up its ghosts at last After this the cold would come they warned and a long summer always meant a long winter This summer had lasted ten years Jon had been a babe in arms when it began

Ghost ran with them for a time and then vanished among the trees Without the direwolf Jon felt almost naked He found himself glancing at every shadow with unease Unbidden he thought back on the tales that Old Nan used to tell them when he was a boy at Winterfell He could almost hear her voice again and the click-click-click of her needles In that darkness the Others came riding she used to say dropping her voice lower and lower Cold and dead they were and they hated iron and fire and the touch of the sun and every living creature with hot blood in its veins Holdfasts and cities and kingdoms of men all fell before them as they moved south on pale dead horses leading hosts of the slain They fed their dead servants on the flesh of human children…

When he caught his first glimpse of the Wall looming above the tops of an ancient gnarled oak Jon was vastly relieved Mormont reined up suddenly and turned in his saddle Tarly he barked come here

Jon saw the start of fright on Sam’s face as he lumbered up on his mare doubtless he thought he was in trouble You’re fat but you’re not stupid boy the Old Bear said gruffly You did well back there And you Snow

Sam blushed a vivid crimson and tripped over his own tongue as he tried to stammer out a courtesy Jon had to smile

When they emerged from under the trees Mormont spurred his tough little garron to a trot Ghost came streaking out from the woods to meet them licking his chops his muzzle red from prey High above the men on the Wall saw the column approaching Jon heard the deep throaty call of the watchman’s great horn calling out across the miles a single long blast that shuddered through the trees and echoed off the ice

UUUUUUUOOOOOOOOOOOOOOooooooooooooooooooooooo

The sound faded slowly to silence One blast meant rangers returning and Jon thought I was a ranger for one day at least Whatever may come they cannot take that away from me

Bowen Marsh was waiting at the first gate as they led their garrons through the icy tunnel The Lord Steward was red-faced and agitated My lord he blurted at Mormont as he swung open the iron bars there’s been a bird you must come at once

What is it man Mormont said gruffly

Curiously Marsh glanced at Jon before he answered Maester Aemon has the letter He’s waiting in your solar

Very well Jon see to my horse and tell Ser Jaremy to put the dead men in a storeroom until the maester is ready for them Mormont strode away grumbling

As they led their horses back to the stable Jon was uncomfortably aware that people were watching him Ser Alliser Thorne was drilling his boys in the yard but he broke off to stare at Jon a faint half smile on his lips One-armed Donal Noye stood in the door of the armory The gods be with you Snow he called out

Something’s wrong Jon thought Something’s very wrong

The dead men were carried to one of the storerooms along the base of the Wall a dark cold cell chiseled from the ice and used to keep meat and grain and sometimes even beer Jon saw that Mormont’s horse was fed and watered and groomed before he took care of his own Afterward he sought out his friends Grenn and Toad were on watch but he found Pyp in the common hall What’s happened he asked

Pyp lowered his voice The king’s dead

Jon was stunned Robert Baratheon had looked old and fat when he visited Winterfell yet he’d seemed hale enough and there’d been no talk of illness How can you know

One of the guards overheard Clydas reading the letter to Maester Aemon Pyp leaned close Jon I’m sorry He was your father’s friend wasn’t he

They were as close as brothers once Jon wondered if Joffrey would keep his father as the King’s Hand It did not seem likely That might mean Lord Eddard would return to Winterfell and his sisters as well He might even be allowed to visit them with Lord Mormont’s permission It would be good to see Arya’s grin again and to talk with his father I will ask him about my mother he resolved I am a man now it is past time he told me Even if she was a whore I don’t care I want to know

I heard Hake say the dead men were your uncle’s Pyp said

Yes Jon replied Two of the six he took with him They’d been dead a long time only… the bodies are queer

Queer Pyp was all curiosity How queer

Sam will tell you Jon did not want to talk of it I should see if the Old Bear has need of me

He walked to the Lord Commander’s Tower alone with a curious sense of apprehension The brothers on guard eyed him solemnly as he approached The Old Bear’s in his solar one of them announced He was asking for you

Jon nodded He should have come straight from the stable He climbed the tower steps briskly He wants wine or a fire in his hearth that’s all he told himself

When he entered the solar Mormont’s raven screamed at him Corn the bird shrieked Corn Corn Corn

Don’t you believe it I just fed him the Old Bear growled He was seated by the window reading a letter Bring me a cup of wine and pour one for yourself

