
The princess looked at him wide-eyed Did Uncle Robert win three battles in a day

The bastard nodded It was when he’d first come home to call his banners Lords Grandison Cafferen and Fell planned to join their strength at Summerhall and march on Storm’s End but he learned their plans from an informer and rode at once with all his knights and squires As the plotters came up on Summerhall one by one he defeated each of them in turn before they could join up with the others He slew Lord Fell in single combat and captured his son Silveraxe

Devan looked to Pylos Is that how it happened

I said so didn’t I Edric Storm said before the maester could reply He smashed all three of them and fought so bravely that Lord Grandison and Lord Cafferen became his men afterward and Silveraxe too No one ever beat my father

Edric you ought not boast Maester Pylos said King Robert suffered defeats like any other man Lord Tyrell bested him at Ashford and he lost many a tourney tilt as well

He won more than he lost though And he killed Prince Rhaegar on the Trident

That he did the maester agreed But now I must give my attention to Lord Davos who has waited so patiently We will read more of King Daeron’s Conquest of Dorne on the morrow

Princess Shireen and the boys said their farewells courteously When they had taken their leaves Maester Pylos moved closer to Davos My lord perhaps you would like to try a bit of Conquest of Dorne as well He slid the slender leather-bound book across the table King Daeron wrote with an elegant simplicity and his history is rich with blood battle and bravery Your son is quite engrossed

My son is not quite twelve I am the King’s Hand Give me another letter if you would

As you wish my lord Maester Pylos rummaged about his table unrolling and then discarding various scraps of parchment There are no new letters Perhaps an old one…

Davos enjoyed a good story as well as any man but Stannis had not named him Hand for his enjoyment he felt His first duty was to help his king rule and for that he must needs understand the words the ravens brought The best way to learn a thing was to do it he had found sails or scrolls it made no matter

This might serve our purpose Pylos passed him a letter

Davos flattened down the little square of crinkled parchment and squinted at the tiny crabbed letters Reading was hard on the eyes that much he had learned early Sometimes he wondered if the Citadel offered a champion’s purse to the maester who wrote the smallest hand Pylos had laughed at the notion but…

To the… five kings read Davos hesitating briefly over five which he did not often see written out The king… be… the king… beware

Beyond the maester corrected

Davos grimaced The King beyond the Wall comes… comes south He leads a… a… fast…

Vast

…a vast host of wil… wild… wildlings Lord M… Mmmor… Mormont sent a… raven from the… ha… ha…

Haunted The haunted forest Pylos underlined the words with the point of his finger

…the haunted forest He is… under a… attack

Yes

Pleased he plowed onward Oth… other birds have come since with no words We… fear… Mormont slain with all… with all his… stench… no strength We fear Mormont slain with all his strength… Davos suddenly realized just what he was reading He turned the letter over and saw that the wax that had sealed it had been black This is from the Night’s Watch Maester has King Stannis seen this letter

I brought it to Lord Alester when it first arrived He was the Hand then I believed he discussed it with the queen When I asked him if he wished to send a reply he told me not to be a fool ‘His Grace lacks the men to fight his own battles he has none to waste on wildlings’ he said to me

That was true enough And this talk of five kings would certainly have angered Stannis Only a starving man begs bread from a beggar he muttered

Pardon my lord

Something my wife said once Davos drummed his shortened fingers against the tabletop The first time he had seen the Wall he had been younger than Devan serving aboard the Cobblecat under Roro Uhoris a Tyroshi known up and down the narrow sea as the Blind Bastard though he was neither blind nor baseborn Roro had sailed past Skagos into the Shivering Sea visiting a hundred little coves that had never seen a trading ship before He brought steel swords axes helms good chainmail hauberks to trade for furs ivory amber and obsidian When the Cobblecat turned back south her holds were stuffed but in the Bay of Seals three black galleys came out to herd her into Eastwatch They lost their cargo and the Bastard lost his head for the crime of trading weapons to the wildlings

Davos had traded at Eastwatch in his smuggling days The black brothers made hard enemies but good customers for a ship with the right cargo But while he might have taken their coin he had never forgotten how the Blind Bastard’s head had rolled across the Cobblecat’s deck I met some wildlings when I was a boy he told Maester Pylos They were fair thieves but bad hagglers One made off with our cabin girl All in all they seemed men like any other men some fair some foul

Men are men Maester Pylos agreed Shall we return to our reading my lord Hand

I am the Hand of the King yes Stannis might be the King of Westeros in name but in truth he was the King of the Painted Table He held Dragonstone and Storm’s End and had an ever-more-uneasy alliance with Salladhor Saan but that was all How could the Watch have looked to him for help They may not know how weak he is how lost his cause King Stannis never saw this letter you are quite certain Nor Melisandre

No Should I bring it to them Even now

No Davos said at once You did your duty when you brought it to Lord Alester If Melisandre knew of this letter… What was it she had said One whose name may not be spoken is marshaling his power Davos Seaworth Soon comes the cold and the night that never ends… And Stannis had seen a vision in the flames a ring of torches in the snow with terror all around

My lord are you unwell asked Pylos

I am frightened Maester he might have said Davos was remembering a tale Salladhor Saan had told him of how Azor Ahai tempered Lightbringer by thrusting it through the heart of the wife he loved He slew his wife to fight the dark If Stannis is Azor Ahai come again does that mean Edric Storm must play the part of Nissa Nissa I was thinking Maester My pardons What harm if some wildling king conquers the north It was not as though Stannis held the north His Grace could scarcely be expected to defend people who refused to acknowledge him as king Give me another letter he said abruptly This one is too…

…difficult suggested Pylos

Soon comes the cold whispered Melisandre and the night that never ends Troubling said Davos Too… troubling A different letter please





Jon


They woke to the smoke of Mole’s Town burning

Atop the King’s Tower Jon Snow leaned on the padded crutch that Maester Aemon had given him and watched the grey plume rise Styr had lost all hope of taking Castle Black unawares when Jon escaped him yet even so he need not have warned of his approach so bluntly You may kill us he reflected but no one will be butchered in their beds That much I did at least

His leg still hurt like blazes when he put his weight on it He’d needed Clydas to help him don his fresh-washed blacks and lace up his boots that morning and by the time they were done he’d wanted to drown himself in the milk of the poppy Instead he had settled for half a cup of dreamwine a chew of willow bark and the crutch The beacon was burning on Weatherback Ridge and the Night’s Watch had need of every man

I can fight he insisted when they tried to stop him

Your leg’s healed is it Noye snorted You won’t mind me giving it a little kick then

I’d sooner you didn’t It’s stiff but I can hobble around well enough and stand and fight if you have need of me

I have need of every man who knows which end of the spear to stab into the wildlings

The pointy end Jon had told his little sister something like that once he remembered

Noye rubbed the bristle on his chin Might be you’ll do We’ll put you on a tower with a longbow but if you bloody well fall off don’t come crying to me

He could see the kingsroad wending its way south through stony brown fields and over windswept hills The Magnar would be coming up that road before the day was done his Thenns marching behind him with axes and spears in their hands and their bronze-and-leather shields on their backs Grigg the Goat Quort Big Boil and the rest will be coming as well And Ygritte The wildlings had never been his friends he had not allowed them to be his friends but her…

He could feel the throb of pain where her arrow had gone through the meat and muscle of his thigh He remembered the old man’s eyes too and the black blood rushing from his throat as the storm cracked overhead But he remembered the grotto best of all the look of her naked in the torchlight the taste of her mouth when it opened under his Ygritte stay away Go south and raid go hide in one of those roundtowers you liked so well You’ll find nothing here but death

