Truly Lord Renly murmured We brought the carcass back with us at my brother’s command

For the feast Robert whispered Now leave us The lot of you I need to speak with Ned

Robert my sweet lord… Cersei began

I said leave Robert insisted with a hint of his old fierceness What part of that don’t you understand woman

Cersei gathered up her skirts and her dignity and led the way to the door Lord Renly and the others followed Grand Maester Pycelle lingered his hands shaking as he offered the king a cup of thick white liquid The milk of the poppy Your Grace he said Drink For your pain

Robert knocked the cup away with the back of his hand Away with you I’ll sleep soon enough old fool Get out

Grand Maester Pycelle gave Ned a stricken look as he shuffled from the room

Damn you Robert Ned said when they were alone His leg was throbbing so badly he was almost blind with pain Or perhaps it was grief that fogged his eyes He lowered himself to the bed beside his friend Why do you always have to be so headstrong

Ah fuck you Ned the king said hoarsely I killed the bastard didn’t I A lock of matted black hair fell across his eyes as he glared up at Ned Ought to do the same for you Can’t leave a man to hunt in peace Ser Robar found me Gregor’s head Ugly thought Never told the Hound Let Cersei surprise him His laugh turned into a grunt as a spasm of pain hit him Gods have mercy he muttered swallowing his agony The girl Daenerys Only a child you were right… that’s why the girl… the gods sent the boar… sent to punish me… The king coughed bringing up blood Wrong it was wrong I… only a girl… Varys Littlefinger even my brother… worthless… no one to tell me no but you Ned… only you… He lifted his hand the gesture pained and feeble Paper and ink There on the table Write what I tell you

Ned smoothed the paper out across his knee and took up the quill At your command Your Grace

This is the will and word of Robert of House Baratheon the First of his Name King of the Andals and all the rest—put in the damn titles you know how it goes I do hereby command Eddard of House Stark Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the King to serve as Lord Regent and Protector of the Realm upon my… upon my death… to rule in my… in my stead until my son Joffrey does come of age…

Robert… Joffrey is not your son he wanted to say but the words would not come The agony was written too plainly across Robert’s face he could not hurt him more So Ned bent his head and wrote but where the king had said my son Joffrey he scrawled my heir instead The deceit made him feel soiled The lies we tell for love he thought May the gods forgive me What else would you have me say

Say… whatever you need to Protect and defend gods old and new you have the words Write I’ll sign it You give it to the council when I’m dead

Robert Ned said in a voice thick with grief you must not do this Don’t die on me The realm needs you

Robert took his hand fingers squeezing hard You are… such a bad liar Ned Stark he said through his pain The realm… the realm knows… what a wretched king I’ve been Bad as Aerys the gods spare me

No Ned told his dying friend not so bad as Aerys Your Grace Not near so bad as Aerys

Robert managed a weak red smile At the least they will say… this last thing… this I did right You won’t fail me You’ll rule now You’ll hate it worse than I did… but you’ll do well Are you done with the scribbling

Yes Your Grace Ned offered Robert the paper The king scrawled his signature blindly leaving a smear of blood across the letter The seal should be witnessed

Serve the boar at my funeral feast Robert rasped Apple in its mouth skin seared crisp Eat the bastard Don’t care if you choke on him Promise me Ned

I promise Promise me Ned Lyanna’s voice echoed

The girl the king said Daenerys Let her live If you can if it… not too late… talk to them… Varys Littlefinger… don’t let them kill her And help my son Ned Make him be… better than me He winced Gods have mercy

They will my friend Ned said They will

The king closed his eyes and seemed to relax Killed by a pig he muttered Ought to laugh but it hurts too much

Ned was not laughing Shall I call them back

Robert gave a weak nod As you will Gods why is it so cold in here

The servants rushed back in and hurried to feed the fires The queen had gone that was some small relief at least If she had any sense Cersei would take her children and fly before the break of day Ned thought She had lingered too long already

King Robert did not seem to miss her He bid his brother Renly and Grand Maester Pycelle to stand in witness as he pressed his seal into the hot yellow wax that Ned had dripped upon his letter Now give me something for the pain and let me die

