
Edmure came down the steps to embrace her Sweet sister he murmured hoarsely He had deep blue eyes and a mouth made for smiles but he was not smiling now He looked worn and tired battered by battle and haggard from strain His neck was bandaged where he had taken a wound Catelyn hugged him fiercely

Your grief is mine Cat he said when they broke apart When we heard about Lord Eddard… the Lannisters will pay I swear it you will have your vengeance

Will that bring Ned back to me she said sharply The wound was still too fresh for softer words She could not think about Ned now She would not It would not do She had to be strong All that will keep I must see Father

He awaits you in his solar Edmure said

Lord Hoster is bedridden my lady her father’s steward explained When had that good man grown so old and grey He instructed me to bring you to him at once

I’ll take her Edmure escorted her up the water stair and across the lower bailey where Petyr Baelish and Brandon Stark had once crossed swords for her favor The massive sandstone walls of the keep loomed above them As they pushed through a door between two guardsmen in fish-crest helms she asked How bad is he dreading the answer even as she said the words

Edmure’s look was somber He will not be with us long the maesters say The pain is… constant and grievous

A blind rage filled her a rage at all the world at her brother Edmure and her sister Lysa at the Lannisters at the maesters at Ned and her father and the monstrous gods who would take them both away from her You should have told me she said You should have sent word as soon as you knew

He forbade it He did not want his enemies to know that he was dying With the realm so troubled he feared that if the Lannisters suspected how frail he was…

…they might attack Catelyn finished hard It was your doing yours a voice whispered inside her If you had not taken it upon yourself to seize the dwarf…

They climbed the spiral stair in silence

The keep was three-sided like Riverrun itself and Lord Hoster’s solar was triangular as well with a stone balcony that jutted out to the east like the prow of some great sandstone ship From there the lord of the castle could look down on his walls and battlements and beyond to where the waters met They had moved her father’s bed out onto the balcony He likes to sit in the sun and watch the rivers Edmure explained Father see who I’ve brought Cat has come to see you…

Hoster Tully had always been a big man tall and broad in his youth portly as he grew older Now he seemed shrunken the muscle and meat melted off his bones Even his face sagged The last time Catelyn had seen him his hair and beard had been brown well streaked with grey Now they had gone white as snow

His eyes opened to the sound of Edmure’s voice Little cat he murmured in a voice thin and wispy and wracked by pain My little cat A tremulous smile touched his face as his hand groped for hers I watched for you…

I shall leave you to talk her brother said kissing their lord father gently on the brow before he withdrew

Catelyn knelt and took her father’s hand in hers It was a big hand but fleshless now the bones moving loosely under the skin all the strength gone from it You should have told me she said A rider a raven…

Riders are taken questioned he answered Ravens are brought down… A spasm of pain took him and his fingers clutched hers hard The crabs are in my belly… pinching always pinching Day and night They have fierce claws the crabs Maester Vyman makes me dreamwine milk of the poppy… I sleep a lot… but I wanted to be awake to see you when you came I was afraid… when the Lannisters took your brother the camps all around us… was afraid I would go before I could see you again… I was afraid…

I’m here Father she said With Robb my son He’ll want to see you too

Your boy he whispered He had my eyes I remember…

He did and does And we’ve brought you Jaime Lannister in irons Riverrun is free again Father

Lord Hoster smiled I saw Last night when it began I told them… had to see They carried me to the gatehouse… watched from the battlements Ah that was beautiful… the torches came in a wave I could hear the cries floating across the river… sweet cries… when that siege tower went up gods… would have died then and glad if only I could have seen you children first Was it your boy who did it Was it your Robb

Yes Catelyn said fiercely proud It was Robb… and Brynden Your brother is here as well my lord

Him Her father’s voice was a faint whisper The Blackfish… came back From the Vale

Yes

And Lysa A cool wind moved through his thin white hair Gods be good your sister… did she come as well

He sounded so full of hope and yearning that it was hard to tell the truth No I’m sorry…

Oh His face fell and some light went out of his eyes I’d hoped I would have liked to see her before…

She’s with her son in the Eyrie

Lord Hoster gave a weary nod Lord Robert now poor Arryn’s gone… I remember… why did she not come with you

She is frightened my lord In the Eyrie she feels safe She kissed his wrinkled brow Robb will be waiting Will you see him And Brynden

Your son he whispered Yes Cat’s child… he had my eyes I remember When he was born Bring him… yes

And your brother

Her father glanced out over the rivers Blackfish he said Has he wed yet Taken some… girl to wife

Even on his deathbed Catelyn thought sadly He has not wed You know that Father Nor will he ever

I told him… commanded him Marry I was his lord He knows My right to make his match A good match A Redwyne Old House Sweet girl pretty… freckles… Bethany yes Poor child Still waiting Yes Still…

Bethany Redwyne wed Lord Rowan years ago Catelyn reminded him She has three children by him

Even so Lord Hoster muttered Even so Spit on the girl The Redwynes Spit on me His lord his brother… that Blackfish I had other offers Lord Bracken’s girl Walder Frey… any of three he said… Has he wed Anyone Anyone

No one Catelyn said yet he has come many leagues to see you fighting his way back to Riverrun I would not be here now if Ser Brynden had not helped us

He was ever a warrior her father husked That he could do Knight of the Gate yes He leaned back and closed his eyes inutterably weary Send him Later I’ll sleep now Too sick to fight Send him up later the Blackfish…

Catelyn kissed him gently smoothed his hair and left him there in the shade of his keep with his rivers flowing beneath He was asleep before she left the solar

When she returned to the lower bailey Ser Brynden Tully stood on the water stairs with wet boots talking with the captain of Riverrun’s guards He came to her at once Is he—

Dying she said As we feared

Her uncle’s craggy face showed his pain plain He ran his fingers through his thick grey hair Will he see me

She nodded He says he is too sick to fight

Brynden Blackfish chuckled I am too old a soldier to believe that Hoster will be chiding me about the Redwyne girl even as we light his funeral pyre damn his bones

Catelyn smiled knowing it was true I do not see Robb

He went with Greyjoy to the hall I believe

Theon Greyjoy was seated on a bench in Riverrun’s Great Hall enjoying a horn of ale and regaling her father’s garrison with an account of the slaughter in the Whispering Wood Some tried to flee but we’d pinched the valley shut at both ends and we rode out of the darkness with sword and lance The Lannisters must have thought the Others themselves were on them when that wolf of Robb’s got in among them I saw him tear one man’s arm from his shoulder and their horses went mad at the scent of him I couldn’t tell you how many men were thrown—

Theon she interrupted where might I find my son

Lord Robb went to visit the godswood my lady
