I like her uneasy said Tyrion

Ser Cleos Frey left that very afternoon escorted by Vylarr and a hundred red-cloaked Lannister guardsmen The men Robb Stark had sent joined them at the King’s Gate for the long ride west

Tyrion found Timett dicing with his Burned Men in the barracks Come to my solar at midnight Timett gave him a hard one-eyed stare a curt nod He was not one for long speeches

That night he feasted with the Stone Crows and Moon Brothers in the Small Hall though he shunned the wine for once He wanted all his wits about him Shagga what moon is this

Shagga’s frown was a fierce thing Black I think

In the west they call that a traitor’s moon Try not to get too drunk tonight and see that your axe is sharp

A Stone Crow’s axe is always sharp and Shagga’s axes are sharpest of all Once I cut off a man’s head but he did not know it until he tried to brush his hair Then it fell off

Is that why you never brush yours The Stone Crows roared and stamped their feet Shagga hooting loudest of all

By midnight the castle was silent and dark Doubtless a few gold cloaks on the walls spied them leaving the Tower of the Hand but no one raised a voice He was the Hand of the King and where he went was his own affair

The thin wooden door split with a thunderous crack beneath the heel of Shagga’s boot Pieces went flying inward and Tyrion heard a woman’s gasp of fear Shagga hacked the door apart with three great blows of his axe and kicked his way through the ruins Timett followed and then Tyrion stepping gingerly over the splinters The fire had burned down a few glowing embers and shadows lay thick across the bedchamber When Timett ripped the heavy curtains off the bed the naked serving girl stared up with wide white eyes Please my lords she pleaded don’t hurt me She cringed away from Shagga flushed and fearful trying to cover her charms with her hands and coming up a hand short

Go Tyrion told her It’s not you we want

Shagga wants this woman

Shagga wants every whore in this city of whores complained Timett son of Timett

Yes Shagga said unabashed Shagga would give her a strong child

If she wants a strong child she’ll know whom to seek Tyrion said Timett see her out… gently if you would

The Burned Man pulled the girl from the bed and half marched half dragged her across the chamber Shagga watched them go mournful as a puppy The girl stumbled over the shattered door and out into the hall helped along by a firm shove from Timett Above their heads the ravens were screeching

Tyrion dragged the soft blanket off the bed uncovering Grand Maester Pycelle beneath Tell me does the Citadel approve of you bedding the serving wenches Maester

The old man was as naked as the girl though he made a markedly less attractive sight For once his heavy-lidded eyes were open wide W-what is the meaning of this I am an old man your loyal servant…

Tyrion hoisted himself onto the bed So loyal that you sent only one of my letters to Doran Martell The other you gave to my sister

N-no squealed Pycelle No a falsehood I swear it it was not me Varys it was Varys the Spider I warned you—

Do all maesters lie so poorly I told Varys that I was giving Prince Doran my nephew Tommen to foster I told Littlefinger that I planned to wed Myrcella to Lord Robert of the Eyrie I told no one that I had offered Myrcella to the Dornish… that truth was only in the letter I entrusted to you

Pycelle clutched for a corner of the blanket Birds are lost messages stolen or sold… it was Varys there are things I might tell you of that eunuch that would chill your blood…

My lady prefers my blood hot

Make no mistake for every secret the eunuch whispers in your ear he holds seven back And Littlefinger that one…

I know all about Lord Petyr He’s almost as untrustworthy as you Shagga cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats

Shagga hefted the huge double-bladed axe There are no goats Halfman

Make do

Roaring Shagga leapt forward Pycelle shrieked and wet the bed urine spraying in all directions as he tried to scramble back out of reach The wildling caught him by the end of his billowy white beard and hacked off three-quarters of it with a single slash of the axe

Timett do you suppose our friend will be more forthcoming without those whiskers to hide behind Tyrion used a bit of the sheet to wipe the piss off his boots

He will tell the truth soon Darkness pooled in the empty pit of Timett’s burned eye I can smell the stink of his fear

Shagga tossed a handful of hair down to the rushes and seized what beard was left Hold still Maester urged Tyrion When Shagga gets angry his hands shake

Shagga’s hands never shake the huge man said indignantly pressing the great crescent blade under Pycelle’s quivering chin and sawing through another tangle of beard

How long have you been spying for my sister Tyrion asked

Pycelle’s breathing was rapid and shallow All I did I did for House Lannister A sheen of sweat covered the broad dome of the old man’s brow and wisps of white hair clung to his wrinkled skin Always… for years… your lord father ask him I was ever his true servant…’twas I who bid Aerys open his gates…

That took Tyrion by surprise He had been no more than an ugly boy at Casterly Rock when the city fell So the Sack of King’s Landing was your work as well

For the realm Once Rhaegar died the war was done Aerys was mad Viserys too young Prince Aegon a babe at the breast but the realm needed a king… I prayed it should be your good father but Robert was too strong and Lord Stark moved too swiftly…

How many have you betrayed I wonder Aerys Eddard Stark me… King Robert as well Lord Arryn Prince Rhaegar Where does it begin Pycelle He knew where it ended

The axe scratched at the apple of Pycelle’s throat and stroked the soft wobbly skin under his jaw scraping away the last hairs You… were not here he gasped when the blade moved upward to his cheeks Robert… his wounds… if you had seen them smelled them you would have no doubt…

Oh I know the boar did your work for you… but if he’d left the job half done doubtless you would have finished it

He was a wretched king… vain drunken lecherous… he would have set your sister aside his own queen… please… Renly was plotting to bring the Highgarden maid to court to entice his brother… it is the gods’ own truth…

And what was Lord Arryn plotting

He knew Pycelle said About… about…

I know what he knew about snapped Tyrion who was not anxious for Shagga and Timett to know as well

He was sending his wife back to the Eyrie and his son to be fostered on Dragonstone… he meant to act…

So you poisoned him first

No Pycelle struggled feebly Shagga growled and grabbed his head The clansman’s hand was so big he could have crushed the maester’s skull like an eggshell had he squeezed

Tyrion tsked at him I saw the tears of Lys among your potions And you sent away Lord Arryn’s own maester and tended him yourself so you could make certain that he died

A falsehood

Shave him closer Tyrion suggested The throat again

The axe swept back down rasping over the skin A thin film of spit bubbled on Pycelle’s lips as his mouth trembled I tried to save Lord Arryn I vow—

