
Make do

Roaring Shagga leapt forward Pycelle shrieked and wet the bed urine spraying in all directions as he tried to scramble back out of reach The wildling caught him by the end of his billowy white beard and hacked off three-quarters of it with a single slash of the axe

Timett do you suppose our friend will be more forthcoming without those whiskers to hide behind Tyrion used a bit of the sheet to wipe the piss off his boots

He will tell the truth soon Darkness pooled in the empty pit of Timett’s burned eye I can smell the stink of his fear

Shagga tossed a handful of hair down to the rushes and seized what beard was left Hold still Maester urged Tyrion When Shagga gets angry his hands shake

Shagga’s hands never shake the huge man said indignantly pressing the great crescent blade under Pycelle’s quivering chin and sawing through another tangle of beard

How long have you been spying for my sister Tyrion asked

Pycelle’s breathing was rapid and shallow All I did I did for House Lannister A sheen of sweat covered the broad dome of the old man’s brow and wisps of white hair clung to his wrinkled skin Always… for years… your lord father ask him I was ever his true servant…’twas I who bid Aerys open his gates…

That took Tyrion by surprise He had been no more than an ugly boy at Casterly Rock when the city fell So the Sack of King’s Landing was your work as well

For the realm Once Rhaegar died the war was done Aerys was mad Viserys too young Prince Aegon a babe at the breast but the realm needed a king… I prayed it should be your good father but Robert was too strong and Lord Stark moved too swiftly…

How many have you betrayed I wonder Aerys Eddard Stark me… King Robert as well Lord Arryn Prince Rhaegar Where does it begin Pycelle He knew where it ended

The axe scratched at the apple of Pycelle’s throat and stroked the soft wobbly skin under his jaw scraping away the last hairs You… were not here he gasped when the blade moved upward to his cheeks Robert… his wounds… if you had seen them smelled them you would have no doubt…

Oh I know the boar did your work for you… but if he’d left the job half done doubtless you would have finished it

He was a wretched king… vain drunken lecherous… he would have set your sister aside his own queen… please… Renly was plotting to bring the Highgarden maid to court to entice his brother… it is the gods’ own truth…

And what was Lord Arryn plotting

He knew Pycelle said About… about…

I know what he knew about snapped Tyrion who was not anxious for Shagga and Timett to know as well

He was sending his wife back to the Eyrie and his son to be fostered on Dragonstone… he meant to act…

So you poisoned him first

No Pycelle struggled feebly Shagga growled and grabbed his head The clansman’s hand was so big he could have crushed the maester’s skull like an eggshell had he squeezed

Tyrion tsked at him I saw the tears of Lys among your potions And you sent away Lord Arryn’s own maester and tended him yourself so you could make certain that he died

A falsehood

Shave him closer Tyrion suggested The throat again

The axe swept back down rasping over the skin A thin film of spit bubbled on Pycelle’s lips as his mouth trembled I tried to save Lord Arryn I vow—

Careful now Shagga you’ve cut him

Shagga growled Dolf fathered warriors not barbers

When he felt the blood trickling down his neck and onto his chest the old man shuddered and the last strength went out of him He looked shrunken both smaller and frailer than he had been when they burst in on him Yes he wimpered yes Colemon was purging so I sent him away The queen needed Lord Arryn dead she did not say so could not Varys was listening always listening but when I looked at her I knew It was not me who gave him the poison though I swear it The old man wept Varys will tell you it was the boy his squire Hugh he was called he must surely have done it ask your sister ask her
