
There was another bird this morning Catelyn did not know why she said it The maester woke me at once That was dutiful but not kind Not kind at all She had not meant to tell Brienne No one knew but her and Maester Vyman and she had meant to keep it that way until… until…

Until what Foolish woman will holding it secret in your heart make it any less true If you never tell never speak of it will it become only a dream less than a dream a nightmare half-remembered Oh if only the gods would be so good

Is it news of King’s Landing asked Brienne

Would that it was The bird came from Castle Cerwyn from Ser Rodrik my castellan Dark wings dark words He has gathered what power he could and is marching on Winterfell to take the castle back How unimportant all that sounded now But he said… he wrote… he told me he…

My lady what is it Is it some news of your sons

Such a simple question that was would that the answer could be as simple When Catelyn tried to speak the words caught in her throat I have no sons but Robb She managed those terrible words without a sob and for that much she was glad

Brienne looked at her with horror My lady

Bran and Rickon tried to escape but were taken at a mill on the Acorn Water Theon Greyjoy has mounted their heads on the walls of Winterfell Theon Greyjoy who ate at my table since he was a boy of ten I have said it gods forgive me I have said it and made it true

Brienne’s face was a watery blur She reached across the table but her fingers stopped short of Catelyn’s as if the touch might be unwelcome I… there are no words my lady My good lady Your sons they… they’re with the gods now

Are they Catelyn said sharply What god would let this happen Rickon was only a baby How could he deserve such a death And Bran… when I left the north he had not opened his eyes since his fall I had to go before he woke Now I can never return to him or hear him laugh again She showed Brienne her palms her fingers These scars… they sent a man to cut Bran’s throat as he lay sleeping He would have died then and me with him but Bran’s wolf tore out the man’s throat That gave her a moment’s pause I suppose Theon killed the wolves too He must have elsewise… I was certain the boys would be safe so long as the direwolves were with them Like Robb with his Grey Wind But my daughters have no wolves now

The abrupt shift of topic left Brienne bewildered Your daughters…

Sansa was a lady at three always so courteous and eager to please She loved nothing so well as tales of knightly valor Men would say she had my look but she will grow into a woman far more beautiful than I ever was you can see that I often sent away her maid so I could brush her hair myself She had auburn hair lighter than mine and so thick and soft… the red in it would catch the light of the torches and shine like copper

And Arya well… Ned’s visitors would oft mistake her for a stableboy if they rode into the yard unannounced Arya was a trial it must be said Half a boy and half a wolf pup Forbid her anything and it became her heart’s desire She had Ned’s long face and brown hair that always looked as though a bird had been nesting in it I despaired of ever making a lady of her She collected scabs as other girls collect dolls and would say anything that came into her head I think she must be dead too When she said that it felt as though a giant hand were squeezing her chest I want them all dead Brienne Theon Greyjoy first then Jaime Lannister and Cersei and the Imp every one every one But my girls… my girls will…

The queen… she has a little girl of her own Brienne said awkwardly And sons too of an age with yours When she hears perhaps she… she may take pity and…

Send my daughters back unharmed Catelyn smiled sadly There is a sweet innocence about you child I could wish… but no Robb will avenge his brothers Ice can kill as dead as fire Ice was Ned’s greatsword Valyrian steel marked with the ripples of a thousand foldings so sharp I feared to touch it Robb’s blade is dull as a cudgel compared to Ice It will not be easy for him to get Theon’s head off I fear The Starks do not use headsmen Ned always said that the man who passes the sentence should swing the blade though he never took any joy in the duty But I would oh yes She stared at her scarred hands opened and closed them then slowly raised her eyes I’ve sent him wine

Wine Brienne was lost Robb Or… Theon Greyjoy

The Kingslayer The ploy had served her well with Cleos Frey I hope you’re thirsty Jaime I hope your throat is dry and tight I would like you to come with me

I am yours to command my lady

Good Catelyn rose abruptly Stay finish your meal in peace I will send for you later At midnight

So late my lady

The dungeons are windowless One hour is much like another down there and for me all hours are midnight Her footsteps rang hollowly when Catelyn left the hall As she climbed to Lord Hoster’s solar she could hear them outside shouting Tully and A cup A cup to the brave young lord My father is not dead she wanted to shout down at them My sons are dead but my father lives damn you all and he is your lord still

Lord Hoster was deep in sleep He had a cup of drearnwine not so long ago my lady Maester Vyman said For the pain He will not know you are here

It makes no matter Catelyn said He is more dead than alive yet more alive than my poor sweet sons

My lady is there aught I might do for you A sleeping draught perhaps

Thank you Maester but no I will not sleep away my grief Bran and Rickon deserve better from me Go and join the celebration I will sit with my father for a time

As you will my lady Vyman bowed and left her

Lord Hoster lay on his back mouth open his breath a faint whistling sigh One hand hung over the edge of the mattress a pale frail fleshless thing but warm when she touched it She slid her fingers through his and closed them No matter how tightly I hold him I cannot keep him here she thought sadly Let him go Yet her fingers would not seem to unbend
