
We never went said Bran Well only to the edge and then doubled back I sent the wolves on to make a trail but we hid in Father’s tomb

The crypts Luwin chuckled a froth of blood on his lips When the maester tried to move he gave a sharp gasp of pain

Tears filled Bran’s eyes When a man was hurt you took him to the maester but what could you do when your maester was hurt

We’ll need to make a litter to carry him said Osha

No use said Luwin I’m dying woman

You can’t said Rickon angrily No you can’t Beside him Shaggydog bared his teeth and growled

The maester smiled Hush now child I’m much older than you I can… die as I please

Hodor down said Bran Hodor went to his knees beside the maester

Listen Luwin said to Osha the princes… Robb’s heirs Not… not together… do you hear

The wildling woman leaned on her spear Aye Safer apart But where to take them I’d thought might be these Cerwyns…

Maester Luwin shook his head though it was plain to see what the effort cost him Cerwyn boy’s dead Ser Rodrik Leobald Tallhart Lady Hornwood… all slain Deepwood fallen Moat Cailin soon Torrhen’s Square Ironmen on the Stony Shore And east the Bastard of Bolton

Then where asked Osha

White Harbor… the Umbers… I do not know… war everywhere… each man against his neighbor and winter coming… such folly such black mad folly… Maester Luwin reached up and grasped Bran’s forearm his fingers closing with a desperate strength You must be strong now Strong

I will be Bran said though it was hard Ser Rodrik killed and Maester Luwin everyone everyone…

Good the maester said A good boy Your… your father’s son Bran Now go

Osha gazed up at the weirwood at the red face carved in the pale trunk And leave you for the gods

I beg… The maester swallowed A… a drink of water and… another boon If you would…

Aye She turned to Meera Take the boys

Jojen and Meera led Rickon out between them Hodor followed Low branches whipped at Bran’s face as they pushed between the trees and the leaves brushed away his tears Osha joined them in the yard a few moments later She said no word of Maester Luwin Hodor must stay with Bran to be his legs the wildling woman said briskly I will take Rickon with me

We’ll go with Bran said Jojen Reed

Aye I thought you might said Osha Believe I’ll try the East Gate and follow the kingsroad a ways

We’ll take the Hunter’s Gate said Meera

Hodor said Hodor

They stopped at the kitchens first Osha found some loaves of burned bread that were still edible and even a cold roast fowl that she ripped in half Meera unearthed a crock of honey and a big sack of apples Outside they made their farewells Rickon sobbed and clung to Hodor’s leg until Osha gave him a smack with the butt end of her spear Then he followed her quick enough Shaggydog stalked after them The last Bran saw of them was the direwolf’s tail as it vanished behind the broken tower

The iron portcullis that closed the Hunter’s Gate had been warped so badly by heat it could not be raised more than a foot They had to squeeze beneath its spikes one by one

Will we go to your lord father Bran asked as they crossed the drawbridge between the walls To Greywater Watch

Meera looked to her brother for the answer Our road is north Jojen announced
