Is your name Tarly Do you have a brother hereabouts Yes you Close your mouth and come with me

With you The words tumbled out in a squeak

Lord Commander Mormont gave him a withering look You are a man of the Night’s Watch Try not to soil your smallclothes every time I look at you Come I said His boots made squishing sounds in the mud and Sam had to hurry to keep up I’ve been thinking about this dragonglass of yours

It’s not mine Sam said

Jon Snow’s dragonglass then If dragonglass daggers are what we need why do we have only two of them Every man on the Wall should be armed with one the day he says his words

We never knew…

We never knew But we must have known once The Night’s Watch has forgotten its true purpose Tarly You don’t build a wall seven hundred feet high to keep savages in skins from stealing women The Wall was made to guard the realms of men… and not against other men which is all the wildlings are when you come right down to it Too many years Tarly too many hundreds and thousands of years We lost sight of the true enemy And now he’s here but we don’t know how to fight him Is dragonglass made by dragons as the smallfolk like to say

The m-maesters think not Sam stammered The maesters say it comes from the fires of the earth They call it obsidian

Mormont snorted They can call it lemon pie for all I care If it kills as you claim I want more of it

Sam stumbled Jon found more on the Fist Hundreds of arrowheads spearheads as well…

So you said Small good it does us there To reach the Fist again we’d need to be armed with the weapons we won’t have until we reach the bloody Fist And there are still the wildlings to deal with We need to find dragonglass someplace else

Sam had almost forgotten about the wildlings so much had happened since The children of the forest used dragonglass blades he said They’d know where to find obsidian

The children of the forest are all dead said Mormont The First Men killed half of them with bronze blades and the Andals finished the job with iron Why a glass dagger should—

The Old Bear broke off as Craster emerged from between the deerhide flaps of his door The wildling smiled revealing a mouth of brown rotten teeth I have a son

Son cawed Mormont’s raven Son son son

The Lord Commander’s face was stiff I’m glad for you

Are you now Me I’ll be glad when you and yours are gone Past time I’m thinking

As soon as our wounded are strong enough…

They’re strong as they’re like to get old crow and both of us know it Them that’s dying you know them too cut their bloody throats and be done with it Or leave them if you don’t have the stomach and I’ll sort them out myself

Lord Commander Mormont bristled Thoren Smallwood claimed you were a friend to the Watch—

Aye said Craster I gave you all I could spare but winter’s coming on and now the girl’s stuck me with another squalling mouth to feed

We could take him someone squeaked

Craster’s head turned His eyes narrowed He spat on Sam’s foot What did you say Slayer

Sam opened and closed his mouth I… I… I only meant… if you didn’t want him… his mouth to feed… with winter coming on we… we could take him and…

My son My blood You think I’d give him to you crows

I only thought… You have no sons you expose them Gilly said as much you leave them in the woods that’s why you have only wives here and daughters who grow up to be wives

Be quiet Sam said Lord Commander Mormont You’ve said enough Too much Inside

